CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Contributions are **welcome** and will be fully **credited**.

We accept contributions via Pull Requests on [Github](https://github.com/sebastiaanluca/laravel-router).


## Pull Requests

- **[PSR-2 Coding Standard](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide.md)** - The easiest way to apply the conventions is to install [PHP Code Sniffer](http://pear.php.net/package/PHP_CodeSniffer).

- **Add tests!** - Your patch won't be accepted if it doesn't have tests.

- **Document any change in behaviour** - Make sure the `README.md` and any other relevant documentation are kept up-to-date.

- **Consider our release cycle** - We try to follow [SemVer v2.0.0](http://semver.org/). Randomly breaking public APIs is not an option.

- **Create feature branches** - Don't ask us to pull from your master branch.

- **One pull request per feature** - If you want to do more than one thing, send multiple pull requests.

- **Send coherent history** - Make sure each individual commit in your pull request is meaningful. If you had to make multiple intermediate commits while developing, please [squash them](http://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History#Changing-Multiple-Commit-Messages) before submitting.


## Running Tests

``` bash
$ composer test
```


**Happy coding**!

Commit message:

Rewrite contributing guidelines
Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan Luca <hello@sebastiaanluca.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Contributions are very welcome and will be fully credited.

We accept contributions via pull requests.

## Pull request guidelines

- **[PSR-2 Coding Standard](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide.md)** - Don't go crazy with the formatting.

- **Add tests** - Your patch won't be accepted if it doesn't have tests. Don't worry though! Feel free to submit a PR without, we'll help you along the way.

- **Document any change in behaviour** - Make sure the `README.md` and any other relevant documentation are kept up-to-date.

- **Consider our release cycle** - We try to follow [SemVer v2.0.0](http://semver.org/). Randomly breaking public APIs is not an option.

- **Create feature branches** - Don't ask us to pull from your master branch unless it only contains the PR code.

- **One pull request per feature** - If you want to do more than one thing, send multiple pull requests.

- **Send coherent history** - Make sure each commit in your pull request is somewhat meaningful and contains related changes. Don't go overboard by changing a dozen files and doing everything in a single commit.
